>> Maximiliano Firtman: That's Steve Jobs
in WWDC,07.
I remember watching that live
stream when he, that was,
I think, a couple of months after
he presented the first iPhone,
and he was about to present the iPhone,
SDK.
So how to create app for the iPhone, okay?
So let's listen to Steve.
>> Steve Jobs: Now, what about developers?
>> Audience: [APPLAUSE]
>> Steve Jobs: What about developers?
>> Steve Jobs: We have been trying to come
up with a solution to expand
the capabilities of iPhone by
letting developers write great apps for
it.
And yet,
keep the iPhone reliable and secure,
and we've come up with
a very sweet solution.
We've got an innovative new
way to create applications for
mobile devices, really innovative, and
it's all based on the fact that
iPhone has the full Safari inside.
The full Safari engine
is inside of iPhone.
And it gives us tremendous capability,
more than has ever been in
a mobile device to this date.
And so, you can write amazing web 2.0 and
Ajax apps, that look exactly and
behave exactly like apps on the iPhone.
And these apps can integrate
perfectly with iPhone services.
They can make a call,
they can send an email,
they can look up
an location on Google maps.
>> Steve Jobs: After you write them,
you have instant distribution,
you don't have to worry
about distribution.
Just put them on your internet server,
and they're really easy to update.
Just change the code on your own server,
rather than having to go through
this really complex update process.
And they're secure with the same
kind of security you'd use for
transactions with Amazon or a bank,
and they run securely on the iPhone so
they don't compromise its reliability or
security.
And guess what?
There's no SDK that you need,
you've got everything you need,
if you know how to write apps using
the most modern web standards
to write amazing apps for
the iPhone today.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
well, Steve is right.
Actually, he was presenting progresive web
apps, and actually in a pretty good way.
He was using different terms, okay,
because we are talking about almost 20
years that has passed in, [LAUGH] that
almost incredible but web 2.0 Ajax.
But it's just,
he was just talking about vanilla
JavaScript using just the Fetch API,
using the cloud, and that's all.
Actually, that doesn't mean
that Apple created PWAs.
Well, not the term,
we mentioned that the term,
the term was actually was coined by a
Google engineer, actually 10 years after.
But, actually no,
we can't say that... Apple was
the first one that made
that big push initially.
But before that, we had also web app for
Symbian, for Blackberry,
there were other mobile operating systems.
I made a lot of web apps for those
platforms and they were not called PWAs,
they were mobile widgets, different names.
And actually the first one, the first
platform that it's a kind of similar
of what we're going to do today
was created by Microsoft in 1999.
It was called MTAs.
MTA was Microsoft HTML applications,
something like that.
And it was actually a way to take HTML and
package that HTML as a window app, okay?
Kind of something that we do
these days with electron, okay?
Kind of that, so it's not new, okay?
But actually it's an old ideal,
it's not a new idea.